The Dusty Drawer
Harry Miles Muheim
1
Norman Logan paid for his apple pie and coffee, then carried his tray toward the front of the cafeteria. From a distance, he recognized the back of william Tritt's large head. The tables near Tritt were empty, and Logan had no desire to eat with him, but they had some unfinished business that Logan wanted to clear up. He stopped at Tritt's table and asked Do you mind if I join you?,
2
Tritt looked up as he always looked up from inside his teller's cage in the bank across the street. He acted like a servant-like a precise butler that Logan used to see in movies--but behind the film of obsequiousness was an attitude of vast supe- riority that always set Logan on edge.
3
 "Why, yes, Mr. Logan. Do sit down. Only please, I must ask you not to mention that two hundred dollars again.
 sWell, we'lI see about that, said Logan pulling out a chair and seating him- self. "Rather late for lunch, isn't it?"
 "Oh, Ive had lunch, Tritt said. "This is just a snack." He cut a large piece of  roast beef from the slab in front of him and thrust it into his mouth."Idon't believe I've seen you all summer, "he added, chewing the meat.
 4
"I took a job upstate, Logan said. " We were trying to stop some kind of blight in the apple orchards.
 "Is that so?" Tritt looked like a concerned bloodhound.
 "I wanted to do some research out West, "Logan went on, "but I couldnt get any money from the university.
 sYou'll be back for the new term, won't you?,
 "Oh, yes.," Logan said with a sigh, "we begin again tomorrow. "He thought for a moment of the freshman faces that would be looking up at him in the lecture room. A bunch of high-strung, mechanical New York City kids, pushed by their parents into his botany class. They were brick-bound people who had no interest in growing things, and Logan sometimes felt sad that in five years of teaching he had communicated to only a few of them his own delight with his subject.
 My, one certainly gets a long vacation in the teaching profession, Tritt said. ""June through September."
 "I suppose, " Logan said. "Only trouble is that you don' t make enough to do anything in all the spare time.
 Tritt laughed a little, controlled laugh and continued chewing. Logan began to eat the pie. It had the drab, neutral flavor of all cafeteria pies.
 " Mr. Tritt, "he said after a long silence.
“Yes?
 "When are you going to give me back my two hundred dollars?"
 7
Oh, come now, Mr. Logan. We had this all out ten months ago. We went over it with Mr. Pinkson and the bank examiners and everyone. I did not steal two hun- dred dollars from you. "
 You did, and you know it."
 " Frankly, I'd rather not hear any more about it.
 "Mr. Tritt, I had three hundred and twenty-four dollars in my hand that day. I'd just cashed some bonds. I know how much I had. "
 "The matter has been all cleared up, "Tritt said coldly.
 8Not for me, it hasn't. When you entered the amount in my checking account, it was for one hundred and twenty-four, not three hundred twenty-four.
 9 Tritt put down his fork and carefully folded his hands. "Ive heard you tellthat story a thousand times, sir. My ca h balanced when you came back and complained, "Sure it balanced, Logan exploded. "You saw your mistake when Pinkson asked you to check the cash. So you took my two hundred out of the drawer. No wonder it balanced
 Tritt laid a restraining hand on Logan's arm. "Mr. Logan, Im going a long, long way in the bank. I simply can't afford to make mistakes.
 10 You also can't afford to admit it when you do make one!
 "Oh, come now, "said Tritt, as though he were speaking to a child. Do you think I'd jeopardize my entire career for two hundred dollars?"
 "You didn't jeopardize your career, "Logan snapped. " You knew you could get away with it. And you took my money to cover your error."
 moving. The September sun went low behind the New Jersey Palisades, but he did not prepare the sheets, for the unused drawer stayed unaccountably in his mind Suddenly he sat forward in his chair. In a surprising flash of creative thought, he had scen how he could make use of the drawer. He wasn't conscious of having tried to develop a nlan. The cntirc plan simply burst upon him all at once, and with such clarity and precision that he hardly felt any responsibility for it. He would robthe bank and pin the robber
 Tritt. That would take care of Tritt.. 22 In the weeks that
 ogan remained surprisingly calm about his plan. Each time he went step by step over the mechanics of the robbery, it seemed more gemlike and more workable. He made his first move the day he got his November pay check
 Down on Fifty-first Sreet, Logan went into a novelty-and-trick store and bought a cigarette case. It was
 de of a dark, steel-blue plastic, and it looked like a trim thirty-eight au
 er was pressed, a section of the top of the gun flipped up
 revealing the cigarettes inside the handle.
23
 With this in his pock
 to the lower part of Second Avenue and entere
 le shop displaying pistols and rifles in the window The small shopkeeper
 ed forward, and Logan asked to see a thirty-eight.“Can't sell you thing
 the man said. "The Sullivan Law.
“oh,idon 't' want to
 weapon,""Logan explained. He took out his plasticgun.“Ijus
 real thing looks like mine here.
24
 The little man laughed a cackle laugh and brought up a thirty-eight from be- neath the coun
 gan's. "So you'll just be fooling around, eh?“that's
 looking at the guns. They were almost identical.“Oh, they look
 like, said the man. "But lemme give you a tip. Put some Scotch
 d to keep it down. Friend of mine was using one of those things, mister. He'd just polished off a stick-up when he pulled the trigger and the lid flop
 ell, he tried to offer the victim a cigarette, but the vic- tim hauled off and beat the hell out of him.
 " Thanks, "Logan said with a smile. "I'll remember that.
“here, you can
 me Scotch tape on right now.
 25 Logan walked over to the Lexington Avenue line and rode uptown on the subway. It was five minutes to three when he got to the bank. The old, gray- uniformed guard touched his cap as Logan came through the door. The stand-up desks were crowded, so it was natural enough for Logan to go through the little iron gate and cross to the table with the drawer. Mr. Pinkson and the new assistant manager had already left; their desks were clear. As Logan sat down, Tritt stuck his head out the door of his cage.
 "More bonds, Mr. Logan? "he asked.
 No, "said Logan. "Just a deposit. "
 26 Tritt closed the door and bent over his work. Logan took out his wallet, removed the pay check, then looked carefully the length of the bank. No one was looking in his direction. As he put the wallet back into his inside coat pocket,he withdrew the slim plastic gun and eased open the drawer. He dropped the gun in,  shut the drawer, deposited the check and went home to his apartment. In spite of the Sullivan Law, he was on his way.
 27 Twice during November he used the table with the drawer. Each time he checked on the gun. It had not been moved By the time he deposited his Decem- ber check, Logan was completely certain that nobody ever looked in there.On the nineteenth of the month, he decided to take the big step.
 28 Next morning, after his ten-o'clock class, Logan walked six blocks through the snow down the hill to the bank. He took four bonds out of his safe-deposit box and filled them out for cashing. The soothing sound of recorded Christmas carols floated down from the main floor.
 29 Upstairs, he seated himself at the heavy table to wait for Tritt. Pinkson had nodded and returned to his figuring: the nervous assistant manager was not around. The carols were quite loud here, and Logan smiled at this unexpected advantage. He placed the bonds squarely on the blotter. Then he slipped open the drawer, took out the gun with his left hand, and held it below the table.
 30 Tritt was coming toward him, carrying his bond chart. They said hello, and Tritt sat down and went to work. He totaled the sum twice and said carefully, still looking at the figures, "Well, Mr. Logan, that comes to eighty-three fifty."
 "I'll want something in addition to the eighty-three fifty, "said Logan,leaning forward and speaking in an even voice.
 "Whats that?" asked Tritt.
 "Ten thousand dollars in twenty-dollar bills.
 Tritt's pink face smiled. He started to look up into Logan's face, but his eyes froze on the muzzle of the gun poking over the edge of the table. He did not notice the Scotch tape.
 "Now just go to your cage and get the money, Logan said.
 31 It was William Tritt's first experience with anything like this. Mr. Logan. Come now, Mr. Logan..." He swallowed and tried to start again, but his self-assurance had deserted him. He turned toward Pinkson's back.
 "Look at me, "snapped Logan.
 Tritt turned back. Mr. Logan, you don' t know what you're doing.
“Keep still.
 "Couldnt we give you a loan or perhaps a-,,
 32 " Listen to me, Tritt. " Logan's voice was just strong enough to carry above"The First Noel, " He was amazed at how authoritative he sounded. "Bring the money in a bag. Place it on the table here. '
 Tritt started to object, but Logan raised the gun slightly, and the last resistance drained from Tritt's body.
 "All right, all right. I'll get it. " As Tritt moved erratically toward his cage, Logan dropped the gun back into the drawer and closed it. Tritt shut the door of the cage, and his head disappeared below the frosted part of the glass. Immedi- ately, Mr. Pinkson's telephone buzzed, and he picked it up. Logan watched his back, and after a few seconds. Pinkson's body stiffened. Logan sighed,knowing then that he would not get the money on this try
 33 Nothing happened for several seconds then suddenly the little old guard came rushing around the corner of the cages, his big pistol drawn and wobbling as he tried to hold it on Logan.
 "Okay, Okay. Stay there! Put your hands up, now!s
 Logan raised his hands, and the guard turned to Pinkson with a half-surprised face. "Okay, Mr. Pinkson. Okay, I've got him covered now.
34
 Pinkson got up as Tritt came out of the cage. Behind the one gun, the three men came slowly toward Logan.
 "Careful, Louie, he's armed, Tritt warned the guard.
 "May I ask what this is all about? Logan said, his hands held high
 Mr. Logan, " said Pinkson, "Im sorry about this but Mr. Tritt here tells methat”
 "That you tried to rob me of ten thousand dollars, said Tritt, his voice choppy. I-I what?"
 6You just attempted an armed robbery of this bank, Tritt said slowly. "Don't try to deny it.
 35 Logan's face became the face of a man so completely incredulous that he can- not speak. He remembered not to overplay it, though. First he simply laughed at Tritt. Then he lowered his hands, regardless of the guard's gun, and stood up,the calm, indignant faculty member.
 "All I can say, Mr. Tritt, is that I do deny it.
 "Goodness," said Pinkson.
 "Better take his gun, Louie, "Tritt ordered the guard.
 The guard stepped gingerly forward to Logan and frisked him, movie style. "Hasnt got a gun, Mr. Tritt, "he said
 36 "Of course he's got a gun, snapped Tritt. He pushed the guard aside. It's right in his coat. "Tritt jammed his hand into Logan's left coat pocket and flailed it about. "It's not in that pocket, "he said after a moment.
 " It's not in any pocket, " Logan said. I don't have one.
”
 37 "You do. You do have a gun. I saw it, Tritt answered, beginning to sound like a child in an argument. He spun Logan around and pulled the coat off him with a jerk. The sleeves turned inside out. Eagerly the teller pulled the side pockets out,
 checked the inside pocket and the breast pocket, then ran his hands over the entire garment, crumpling it. "The-the gun's not in his coat, ' he said finally. " It's not in his pants, "the guard added.
 38 Tritt stepped over to the table quickly "It' s around here somewhere, ' he said. <We were sitting right here. " He stood directly in front of the closed drawer,and his hands began to move meaninglessly over the tabletop. He picked up the neat tack of deposit slips, put them down again, then looked under the desk blotter, as though it could have concealed a gun.
 39 Logan knew he
 had to stop this. ]s there any place I can remove the rest of my clothes? "he asked loudly, slipping the suspenders from his shoulders. Several depositors had gathered on the other side of the marble fence to watch, and Mr. Pinkson had had enough
 40"0h, no, no, he said, almost shouting. "That won't be necessary, Mr. Logan. Louie said you were unarmed. Now, Louie, put your gun away, and for goodness sake, request the customers to please move on.
 "But Mr. Pinkson, you must believe me " Tritt said, coming over to the man- ager. "This man held a gun on me and-"
 *It's hard to know what to believe, said Pinkson. But no money was stolen, and I don't see how we can embarrass Mr. Logan further with this matter. Please, Mr. Logan, do pull up your suspenders.
 41 It was a shattering moment for the teller--the first time his word had ever been doubted at the bank.
 "But sir, I insist that this man,
 "I must ask you to return to your cage now, Mr Tritt, " Pinkson said, badly agi- tated.Tritt obeyed.
 The manager helped Logan put on his coat, then steered him over to his desk. "This is all a terrible mistake, Mr. Logan. Please do sit down now,please."The friendly little man was breathing heavily. " Now, I just want you to know that if you should press this complaint, it-it would go awfully bad for us down in the main office downtown, and l-,
 42"Please don't get excited, Mr. Pinkson, " Logan said with a smile. "Im not going to make any complaint. " Logan passed the whole thing off casually. Mr. Tritt imagined he saw a gun, that's all It was simply one of those aberrations that perfectly normal people get occasionally. Now, could Mr. Pinkson finish cashing his bonds? Th
 paid him the eighty-three fifty, continuing to apologize. Logan left the bank and walked through the soft snowfall, whistling a Christ. mas carol. He'd handled himself perfectly.
 43 In the weeks that followed, Logan continued to do business with Tritt, just as though nothing had happened. The teller tried to remain aloof and calm,but added sums incorrectly, and his hands shook. One day late in January, Tritt stood up halfway through a transaction, his body trembling,"Excuse me,Mr.Logan,"he murmured, and rushed off into the corridor behind the cages. Pinkson followed him, and Logan took advantage of the moment to check on the gun. It lay un- touched in the drawer. Then Pinkson came back alone "I'm awfully sorry to delay you again, sir, "he said. "Mr. Tritt doesn't feel too well."

 44"Did he imagine he saw another gun?" Logan asked quietly. "No. He just upsets easily now. Ever since that incident with you last month, he's been like a cat on a hot stove. " "I've noticed he's changed" sHe's lost that old, calm banking touch Mr. Logan. And of course, he's in con- stant fear of a new hallucination. aI'm sorry to hear that, "Logan said, looking genuinely concerned. "It's very sad when a person loses his grip. " 45 It's particularly disappointing to me, "the manager said sadly. " I brought Tritt into the bank myself, you see. Had him earmarked for a big spot downtown some- day. Fine man. Intell ccurate -why he's been right down the line on
 everything. But now-now he's-well, I do hope he gets over this.46 sI can understand how you feel, " Logan said sympathetically. He smiled inside at the precision of hi g. William Tritt had been undermined just enough-
 not only in Pinkson's mind but in his own. boar
 47 On the tenth of March, Norman logan acted again. When Tritt was seated
 ga
 across from him, Logan aid,"Well,here we go again, Mr. Tritt. "Tritt's head
 came up, and once more he was looking into the barrel of the toy automatic. He did not try to speak. "Now go get the ten thousand"ordered Logan. "And this time, do it. 48 Without objecting, the teller moved quickly to his cage. Logan slipped the gun back into the drawer; t then he picked up his brief case and stood it near the edge
 of the table. Pinkson's telephone didn't buzz, and the guard remained out of sight. arry
 After a few minutes, Tritt came out of the cage, carrying a small cloth bag. 49"All right, continue with the bonds, "Logan said. " The bag goes on the table between us. Is " Logan shifted forward and opened the bagkeeping the money out of
 sight behind the brief case. The clean new bills were wrapped in thousand-dollar units, each package b d with a bright yellow strip of paper. Logan counted
 through one package, and, with Tritt looking right at him, he placed the package of money carefully in the brief case.50“T *There, he said. "Now finish with the bonds. Tritt finished filling out the form and got Logan's signature. He was not as flustered as Logan had thought he'd be "Now listen, Tritt, "Logan went on, My getaway is all set, of course, but if you give any signal before I'm out of the bank I'll put a bullet into you-right here."Logan po ted to the bridge of his own nose. "Please don't think I,d hesi-
 tate to do it. Now get back to your cage. 51 Tritt returned to the cage. While his back was turned, Logan slipped the bag of money from his brief case and dropped it into the drawer, next to the gun. He eased the drawer into the table, took the brief case and walked out of the bank. Outside, he stood directly in front of the entrance, as though he were waiting for a bus. After just a few seconds the burglar alarm went off with a tremendous mer
 electrical shriek, and the old guard came running out of the door after him. He was followed immediately by Pinkson, the assistant manager, and Tritt. s2-Well, gentlemen, "said Logan, his hands raised again in front of the guard's gun,"here we are again, eh?? a crowd was gathering, and Pinkson sent the assistant to turn off the alarm. "Come, let,s all go inside, he said. "I don't want any fuss out here.'s
 It was the same kind of scene they'd played before, only now Logan--the twice- wronged citizen-was irate, and now ten thousand dollars was missing from Wil- liam Tritt's cage. Tritt was calm, though
 53I was ready for him this time, "he said proudly to Pinkson. I marked ten thou- sand worth of twenties. My initial is on the band. The money's in his brief case." "Oh, for Heaven's sake, Tritt, "Logan shouted suddenly, " who ever heard of making a getaway by waiting for a bus. I don't know what your game is, but- Never mind my game, said Tritt." Let's just take a look in your brief case. 54 He wrenched it from Logan's hand, clicked the lock, and turned the brief case upside down. A group of corrected examination books fell out. That was all. See?" said Logan. Not a cent."
 The guard put away his gun as Pinkson began to pick up the scattered books. 55 Tritt wheeled, threw the brief case against the wall, and grabbed Logan by the lapels. "But I gave you the money. I did. I did! "His face was pasty gray, and his voice was high. "You put it in the brief case. I saw you. I saw you do it! "He began to shake Logan in a kind of final attempt to shake the ten thousand dollars out of him.
 Pinkson straightened up with the exam books and said, "For goodness'sake, Mr. Tritt. Stop it. Stop it. ""
 Tritt stopped shaking Logan, then turned wildly to Pinkson. " You dont believe me! "he shouted. "You don't believe me!"
 "It's not a question of-"
 56I'll find that money. I'll show you whos lying."He rushed over to the big table and swept it completely clear with one wave of his heavy arm. The slips fluttered to the floor, and the inkwell broke, splattering black ink over the carpet.Tritt pulled the table in a wild, crashing arc across the green carpet, smashing it into Pinkson's desk Logan saw the dusty drawer come open about a half-inch. 57 The big man dropped clumsily to his knees and began to pound on the carpet with his flattened hands as he kept muttering " It's around here someplace-a cloth bag. He grabbed a corner of the carpet and flipped it back with a grunt.It made a puff of dust and revealed only a large triangle of empty, dirty floor.A dozen people had gathered outside the marble fence by now, and all the tellers were peering through the glass panes of the cages at Tritt
 58"I'll find it! I'll find it! "he shouted. A film of sweat was on his forehead as he stood up, turned, and advanced again toward the table. The slightly opened drawer was in plain sight in front of him, but everyone's eyes were fixed on Tritt, and Tritt did not see the drawer under the overhang of the table
 logan turned quickly to Pinkson and whispered "He may be dangerous, Mr. Pinkson. You've got to calm him. "He grabbed Pinkson by the arm and pushed him backward several feet, so that the manager came to rest on the edge of the table, directly over the drawer. The exam books were still in his hand.
 59"Mr. Tritt, you must stop this! Mr. Pinkson said.
 "Get out of my way, Pinkson, "said Tritt, coming right at him, breathing like a  bull."You believe him, but I'll show you. I'Il find it! " He placed his hands on Pinkson's shoulders "Now get away, you fool.
 "I wont take that from anyone, snapped Pinkson. He slapped Tritt's face with a loud, stinging blow. The teller stopped, stunned, and suddenly began to cry. "Mr. Pinkson. Mr. Pinkson, you've got to trust me.
 Pinkson was immediately ashamed of what he had done. "I'm sorry, my boy. I shouldn't have done that. '
 60 "I tell you he held a gun on me again. A real gun--it's not my imagination. "But why didn't you call Louie? " Pinkson said. "Thats the rule, you know.”  "I wanted to catch him myself. He--he made such a fool of me last time. "But that business last time was hallucination, said Pinkson, looking over at Logan. Logan nodded.
 "It's no hallucination when ten thousand dollars is missing,
” Tritt shouted * That's precisely where the confusion arises in my mind, "Mr. Pinkson said slowly. "Well get it straight, but in the meantime, I must order your arrest, Mr Trit. 61 Logan came and stood next to Pinkson, and they both looked sympathetically at the teller as he walked slowly, still sobbing, back to the cage.
 "I'm just sick about it,"Pin
 " I think you'll find he's not legally competent," said Logan, putting a comfort- ing thought into Pinkson's head.
“Perhaps not
 62 Logan showed his concern by helping to clean up the mess that Tritt had made. He and the assistant manager placed the table back into its position against the far wall, Logan shoving the dusty drawer firmly closed with his fingertips as they lifted it.
 Norman Logan returned to the bank late the next day. He sat at the table to make a deposit, and he felt a pleasantly victorious sensation surge through him as he slipped the gun and the ten thousand dollars out of the drawer and into his overcoat pocket. As he walked out the front door past the guard, he met Mr Pink- son, who was rushing in.
 63"Terrible. Terrible, "the little man said without even pausing to say hello. "Whats that? Logan asked calmly.
 uI've just been talking to the doctors at Bellevue about Tritt, "Pinkson said. "He seems all right, and they've released him. Unfortunately he can answer every question except"Where's the money? Logan held firmly to the money in his pocket and continued to extend his sympathies.
 Back at his apartment, Logan borrowed a portable typewriter from the man upstairs. Then he sat down and wrote a note:
 Dear Mr. Pinkson:
 I'm returning the money. I'm so sorry. I guess I didn't know what I was doing. I guess I haven't known for some time.
 After looking up Tritt's initials on an old deposit slip, he forged a small tidy W.T. to the note.
 64 Logan wiped his fingerprints from the bills and wrapped them, along with the note, in a neat package. For one delicious moment he considered how nice it would be to hang on to the money. He could resign from the university, go out West, and continue his research on his own. But that wasn t part of the plan, and the plan was working too well to tamper with it now. Logan drove to the post office nearest Tritt's apartment and mailed the money to Pinkson at the bank. 65 In the morning, Mr. Pinkson telephoned Logan at the university. Well, it's all cleared up, " he said, relieved but sad "Tritt returned the money, so the bank is not going to press charges. Needless to say, we're dropping Tritt. He not only denies having taken the money, he also denies having returned it.
 GI guess he just doesn't know what he's doing, Logan said.
 66 Yes. That's what he said in the note. Anyway, Mr. Logan, I-I just wanted to call and apologize for the trouble we've caused you
 "Oh, it was no trouble for me, Logan replied, smiling.
 "And you've been very helpful, too, Pinkson added.
 "I was glad to be of help, Logan said quietly. "Delighted, in fact.
 They said good-by then, and Logan walked across the hall to begin his ten o'clock botany lecture.
